>> Steve Kinney: However,
if they do choose to read the file or
if they do select a file, obviously just
giving them back the file name, not great.
This is a text editor, we should probably
get the text contents of the file.
So to do that we will need
to go up here and say,
>> Steve Kinney: Const fs = require('fs').
And that will bring us in
the file system module,
where once we have the name of the file,
we'll go ahead and we'll read the file and
then we'll start by console logging it.
Eventually, we'll figure out,
we'll say, hey, renderer process,
I open this file here are the contents for
you to put it into the user interface.
We'll get all the way there, but we will
start with just reading the file and
logging into the console.
So if there are no files,
we're gonna hit cancel.
Otherwise, let's get the first
file out of the array.
If you wanna use the array destruction
syntax you're more than welcome to.
And then, so we've got the file name, and
then we'll do,
>> Steve Kinney: Now,
you could use the asynchronous method
to read file that take a call back.
I'm going to use read file sync,
mostly just to keep it easy for
us as we're learning electron.
Generally speaking, read file sync blocks
the main process until it reads the file.
If it's a giant file that's
probably not great, but
we know that they're small files, so
I'm not gonna make things more complicated
with call backs personally right now.
But we'll go ahead and
we'll read file sync.
And we'll do that with the file name, and
that will actually, let's go ahead and
do it like this real quick, and
we'll see the quick problem here, he says.
>> Steve Kinney: Go ahead and pick that.
You can see I get this buffer.
Cuz node doesn't know if it's a text file,
or
an image file, or a binary file,
or anything along those lines.
So I can go ahead and just say,
>> Steve Kinney: toString.
Which will actually make it a,
>> Steve Kinney: You can guess what
it's gonna make it.
It's gonna make it a string.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool, and there is the
contents of my grocery list, red apples,
green grapes, green apples, red grapes,
vegan ham, steak, I don't know.
All right, so now we can read and
write from the file system.
We can trigger that with a native OS
level file dialogue, that's pretty cool.
But it would be a little bit better if we
could do a few more interesting things
with it.
First, before we do that,
I do wanna talk about some of the options
that you have in the file dialog.
We saw the openFile one.
I talked a little bit about multi-select,
or
the ability to select an entire
directory is a thing that you can do.
We don't want any of those for
our application,
cuz it's a single window application.
They can't support a directory,
so on and so forth,
so we're gonna stick with that one.
But there are some other
things that you can do.
Right now,
we're calling that toString method.
And I was like, yeah,
we call toString because node doesn't
know if it's an image or a binary.
Neither do we, there is nothing stopping
the user right now from going ahead and
opening up a dank meme, right?
And toString'ing that will be
a bunch of binary garbage.
So we need to figure out a way to filter
out what the user can actually select.
And the way we can do that is
we can just say filters, and
filters is an array of all the file types
that you want to allow the user to open.
So in this case we could say,
>> Steve Kinney: name:'Text Files',
and we'll say extensions: ['txt',
'text']},
are there any other common extensions for
text files?
That feels good right?
>> Speaker 2: CSV.
>> Steve Kinney: Is that
really a text file?
>> Speaker 2: MD.
>> Steve Kinney: You're reading my mind,
you're reading my mind.
We'll also say something along the lines
of name cuz this is a markdown
editor, right?
So MD is a good thought.
We'll say Markdown Files.
>> Steve Kinney: I'll say,
md, mdown, markdown.
>> Steve Kinney: I'll make a new
file extension named after Marc,
called marcdown.
It'd be good, cool.
So this is text and then we're fine.
And so this will allow the user,
now if you're on Windows by default,
you'll actually see a drop-down which will
allow you to select which kind of files
you wanna pick.
Depending on your version of Mac OS,
you can choose to see that,
we'll talk about what
that means in a second.
Let's actually just get this up and
running first.
Unexpected token,
cuz I didn't put a comma at the end.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool.
>> Steve Kinney: All right, so I can
go ahead, I can see this File dialog.
You can see these are normal,
but if I go on to, let's say,
my documents directory,
>> Steve Kinney: You can see that
things that are not markdown files are
grayed out and I can't choose them, right?
The other thing is if you're in Windows
you can see a drop down also depending on
your version of MacOS there might
be this option spot in here,
where you can actually also see.
And I named that markdown files and
text files.
You could name that whatever your
custom application is, right?
I could've named them fire sale documents,
and
that would've been what
was displayed there.
Windows, you get that by default.
Mac, you might have
an Options button there.
Otherwise, MacOS will still respect it
just by graying out things that are not
valid in that list.